feat: add kb article content for adding custom management role for project in platform (#513)
loft-sh/vcluster-docs: staging/custom_managementroles_in_vclusterplatform.mdx

---
title: Adding Custom Management Role for project in vCluster platform 
sidebar_label: Understanding Custom Management Roles in the platform
description: An overview of Management roles and custom roles within the vCluster platform, including steps to create custom management roles.
---

## Overview

> This article provides an overview of **Management roles** and **Custom roles** within the vCluster platform and guides you through creating custom management roles that can be designated as project roles.

Reviewer: There are some docs on this here https://www.vcluster.com/docs/platform/administer/users-permissions/permissions/platform>. I think we can consolidate some of this info to fit here. WDYT @Ilan-loft 

```suggestion
This guide explains Management and Custom roles in vCluster and how to create custom management roles for projects.
```

## 1. What are Management Roles in the vCluster Platform?

Management roles in vCluster can be either **Cluster Roles** or **Platform Roles**, depending on the permissions granted. These roles allow users or teams to manage permissions for their vCluster Platform instance.

Management roles are based on **ClusterRoleTemplate** objects, which act as lightweight wrappers around standard Kubernetes **ClusterRole** objects. These templates are deployed as ClusterRoles to each connected cluster within the vCluster Platform, ensuring consistent permission management.

### **Key Features:**
- Serve as template blueprints for ClusterRoles.
- Provide permissions to Loft's **Management API**.
- Ensure role consistency across all clusters.

## 2. Accessing Management Roles in the vCluster Platform

To access **Management Roles**, follow these steps:

> 1. **Login** to the vCluster platform UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the vCluster platform UI.
```

> 2. **Navigate to** the **Users** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to the **Users** section.
```

> 3. Click on the **Management Roles** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the **Management Roles** tab.
```

> ## 3. What are Custom Roles in the vCluster Platform?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Custom roles in the platform?
```

> Similar to management roles, **Custom Roles** in the vCluster platform provide more **granular control** over permissions for **Projects** and **vClusters**. While default management roles offer broad access, custom roles allow organizations to tailor permissions precisely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to management roles,  Custom Roles in the vCluster platform provide more granular control over permissions for Projects and vClusters. While default management roles offer broad access, custom roles allow organizations to tailor permissions precisely.
```

### **Why Use Custom Roles?**
- Fine-tuned access control.
- Ensures permissions align with organizational needs.
- Allows role customization for specific users, teams, and applications.

## 4. Steps to Create a Custom Role in the vCluster Platform

To create a custom role, follow these steps:

> 1. **Login** to the vCluster Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the vCluster Platform.
```

> 2. **Navigate to** `Users -> Management Roles`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to **Users** -> ***Management Roles**.
```

3. Click on **Create Role**.

> 4. **Assign a unique name** to the role (optionally, add a description).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Assign a unique name to the role. Optionally, add a description.
```

> 5. To make the role accessible as a **project role**, add the following label:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. To make the role accessible as a project role, add the following label:
```

   ```yaml
   loft.sh/project-role: 'true'
   ```

> 6. Under **Rules**, define the **RBAC policies** to be assigned to the role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. In **Rules**, define the RBAC policies to be assigned to the role.
```

7. Click **Save Changes**.

## 5. How to Check if a Custom Role Can Be Assigned to a Project

1. Navigate to **Project Settings**.
2. Under the **Users** section, add a new user.

> 3. The custom role should now be available in the **role dropdown** for selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The Roles dropdown now displays the custom role for selection.
```
